== jet(): Javascript Extension Toolkie

Jet is a JavaScript UI toolkit based on two premises:

* Lower compatibility but small size and great performance
* Not every feature out-of-the-box but great scalability

== Compatibility
Jet is currently a one-man project. Given these limited resources, it is only tested against IE 6, 7 and 8, and the latest versions of Firefox, Chrome, Safari and Opera. Older versions and other browsers aren't guaranteed to work at all. The goal of this project is experimentation and learning, so feel free to use any part of Jet in your projects at your own risk.

The status of the library is *under development*, not even an alpha stage. And since it is a learning project, you are very much welcome to provide suggestions, code and graphic design.

== Small size
There are many great JavaScript UI libraries out there. Most favor a long range of compatibility and heavy features. That's great when you need a lot of features and have lots of users in the long tail of the browser market. However, most of the time it ends up being overkill or, if you are a UI developer, you end up working on top of a lot of code you don't use.

With that in mind, Jet aims at having a small and powerful core under *15 Kb minified* (5 Kb with gzip compression) that provides a good DOM interface, lots of *optional features* and a good architecture based on Yahoo!'s YUI 3 that will allow you to write good easy-to-maintain code on top of it.

== Modules
Jet comes with a lot of optional modules that you can load dinamically. The complete documentation is available in the [http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/index.html API reference].

*Included in the Jet Core*
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/Get.html Get]* dynamically load scripts and CSS files
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_io.html IO]* for your XmlHttpRequest needs
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/Lang.html Lang]* type determining functions, and utilities for working with Arrays and Hashes
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_log.html Log]* logging tools, for later watching from the [Log Console]
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_node.html Node]* chainable and powerful DOM interface
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_ua.html UA]* browser sniffing

*Utilities*
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_anim.html Anim]* plugs animations into Node and provides a TimeFrame and Tweens for more complex animations
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_cookie.html Cookie]* easy to use cookies
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_history.html History] ReallySimpleHistory project adapted to jet() and updated for modern browsers
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_imageloader.html ImageLoader]* preload images, show them only when needed and fix PNG's
* *io-xdr* asynchronous cross-domain calls based on flash
* *io-xsl* for loading and using XSL transformations
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_datasource.html DataSource]* transform one information source into the schema your application uses
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_dragdrop.html DragDrop]* some times the drag metaphor just works
* *JSON* Douglas Crockford's JSON module. Loads only if the browser doesn't have native JSON support
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_resize.html Resize]* resize elements
* *Sizzle* John Resig's CSS selector engine
* *SWF* SWFObject as a module
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_vector.html Vector]* provides cross-browser SVG support (using VML in Internet Explorer) for drawing graphics

*Widgets*
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_button.html Button]* Button, ComboBox, RadioButton
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_container.html Container]* Module, Overlay, Panel, SimpleDialog for creating dynamic windows and forms
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_datatable.html DataTable]* sortable table plugged into a DataSource for easily displaying lots of data
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_paginator.html Paginator]* switch between virtual pages of data, based on a DataSource
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_simpleprogressbar.html SimpleProgressBar]* for when you need to load a lot of modules
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_tabs.html Tabs]* simple tabs, progressive-enhancement ready
* *[http://github.com/juandopazo/jet/raw/master/docs/api/module_treeview.html TreeView]* generic tree building tool
  